The Project Gutenberg eBook, Dorothy Dale and Her Chums, by Margaret
Penrose


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: Dorothy Dale and Her Chums


Author: Margaret Penrose



Release Date: February 10, 2017  [eBook #54147]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DOROTHY DALE AND HER CHUMS***


E-text prepared by Stephen Hutcheson, MFR, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 54147-h.htm or 54147-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/54147/54147-h/54147-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/54147/54147-h.zip)





[Illustration: “Stretched out his arms to bar their way” _Page 142_]


DOROTHY DALE AND HER CHUMS

by

MARGARET PENROSE

Author of “Dorothy Dale: a Girl of To-Day,” “Dorothy
Dale at Glenwood School,” “Dorothy Dale’s
Great Secret,” etc.

Illustrated






New York
Cupples & Leon Company


      *      *      *      *      *      *

THE DOROTHY DALE SERIES

  BY MARGARET PENROSE

  Cloth. Illustrated. Price per volume, 60 cts., postpaid

    DOROTHY DALE: A GIRL OF TO-DAY
    DOROTHY DALE AT GLENWOOD SCHOOL
    DOROTHY DALE’S GREAT SECRET
    DOROTHY DALE AND HER CHUMS

    (Other volumes in preparation)

  CUPPLES & LEON COMPANY NEW YORK

      *      *      *      *      *      *


Copyright, 1909, by
Cupples & Leon Company

DOROTHY DALE AND HER CHUMS




CONTENTS


  CHAPTER                              PAGE

      I. STOLEN BIRDS                     1
     II. THE GYPSY GIRL                   8
    III. DOROTHY AT THE CAMP             21
     IV. THE MIDNIGHT ALARM              29
      V. AN AWFUL EXPERIENCE             43
     VI. “THE GOODS”                     59
    VII. A STRANGE GIRL                  72
   VIII. THE RUNAWAY                     77
     IX. MIETTE                          87
      X. A RUMPUS                        98
     XI. “GIRLS AND GIRLS”              104
    XII. A GIRL’S MEAN ACT              112
   XIII. THE TROUBLES OF MIETTE         120
    XIV. DOROTHY TO THE RESCUE          128
     XV. A QUEER TRAMP                  143
    XVI. SURPRISES                      152
   XVII. DOROTHY’S COURAGE              161
  XVIII. TAVIA’S DOUBLE                 171
    XIX. THE CAPTURE                    177
     XX. URANIA IN THE TOILS            187
    XXI. COMPLICATIONS                  197
   XXII. SINCERE AFFECTION’S POWER      206
  XXIII. THE REAL MIETTE                218
   XXIV. THE SEARCH                     231
    XXV. DOROTHY AND HER CHUMS          243




DOROTHY DALE AND HER CHUMS

CHAPTER I

STOLEN BIRDS


“Of all things, to have that happen just now! Isn’t it too mean!”
sighed Dorothy, perching herself on the high shelf at the side of the
pump, and gazing dejectedly beyond the wire fence into the pigeon loft,
where a few birds posed in real “Oh fair dove, Oh, fond dove!” fashion.

“Mean?” repeated Tavia, who was inside the wire fence, calling live
birds, and looking for dead ones, both of which efforts were proving
failures. “It is awful, Dorothy, such a doings as this. They are gone,
sure enough,” and she crawled through the low gate that was intended as
an emergency exit for chickens or pigeons. “I’d just like to know who
took them,” she finished.

“So would I,” and Dorothy shook her blonde head with a meaning clearer
than mere words might impart. “Yes, I would like to know, and I’ve just
a notion of finding out.”

Tavia reached for the clean little drinking pan that rested on the
shelf at Dorothy’s elbow. She held it under the pump spout while
Dorothy worked the pump handle up and down. Then, with the fresh water
in her hand, Tavia crawled inside the wire enclosure again. A few tame
bantams flew across the yard to the treat. Then the doves left their
perch and joined the party around the pan.

“How lonely they look without the others,” remarked Dorothy, as she,
too, crept through the wire gate. “And I did love the Archangels. I
never saw prettier doves. They always reminded me of real Paradise
birds. No wonder they were called by a heavenly name.”

“And to have taken both pairs!” denounced Tavia. “My favorites were the
fantails--they always made me think of--What do you think?”

“Think? I know.”

“What, then?”

“Why, accordion-pleated automobile coats,” teased Dorothy.

“Of course! With such dainty white lingerie! Wouldn’t Nat and Ned look
swell in such coats!”

“Well, if you insist, Tavia, I shall give you my real opinion--memoirs
of the fantails, as it were. They looked exactly like star chorus
girls. But I was loathe to bring up such thoughts in your presence.
Yet, those birds were the purest white--”

“Oh, how I shall miss them! I just enjoyed coming down here every
morning to see them,” and Tavia very gently picked up two of the doves,
placed one on each of her shoulders, and then proceeded to walk “around
the ring,” doing a trick she called “The Winged Venus.”

But there was very little of the Venus type about Tavia. It was rather
early in the morning, and her hair had as yet only received the “fire
alarm brush,” which meant that Tavia, upon hearing the breakfast
bell, had smuggled her brown hair into a most daring knot, promising
to do it up properly later. But it was at breakfast that Dorothy’s
two cousins, Ned and Nat, told of their loss--that the pigeons had
been stolen during the night. The boys made no attempt to hide either
their anger at the unknown thieves’ act, or their genuine grief at the
loss of their fine birds. Dorothy and Tavia were almost as wrought
up over the affair as were the boys, and, as a matter of fact, very
little breakfast was partaken of by any of the quartette that morning.
So Tavia did not get back to her room to give the “back tap” to the
“fire alarm” hair dressing, and as she now marched around the chicken
yard, with the doves on her shoulders, proclaiming herself to be the
Winged Venus, Dorothy suggested it might be well to do away with the
Psyche knot at the back of her head first, and not get her mythology so
hopelessly mixed.

Over in a grassy corner Dorothy was feeding from her hands the bantams.
She looked like a “living picture,” for a pretty girl feeding chicks
always looks like something else, a page from fairy tales, or a colored
plate from Mother Goose.

Tavia had always complained that Dorothy “didn’t have to do” her hair,
she only had to “undo it,” for the blonde waves had a way of nestling
in very close at night, only to be shaken out the next morning. So
Dorothy’s hair looked pretty, and her simple white gown was smooth, not
wrinkled like Tavia’s, for Dorothy’s dress couldn’t wrinkle, the stuff
was too soft to hold creases. Tavia wore a pink muslin slip--it was
intended to be worn as an underslip, with a thin lace or net covering,
but like other things Tavia had cut her dressing down that morning,
so she wore the slip without the cover. And to add to the “misery,”
the pink slip was a mass of wrinkles--it had been making itself
comfortable in a little lump on Tavia’s bedroom chair all the night,
and so was not quite ready (copying its mistress) to be on parade in
the morning sunlight.

“Here come the boys,” suddenly announced Dorothy, as two youths strode
down the path toward the little enclosure.

“Hello there!” called Ned. “What’s the entrance?”

“Reserved seats fifty cents,” answered Dorothy promptly.

“This way for the side show,” called out Tavia, who still had the birds
on her shoulders.

“I’ve seen worse,” declared Nat, the youth who always saw something to
compliment about Tavia. “Say, Coz”--this to Dorothy--“I think I know
who took the pigeons, and I want your help to bring them to--justice.”

“Oh, she’s just aching to go on the force,” declared Tavia, “shooing”
the doves away, as the news of the thievery was promised. “She thinks
those Archangels will ‘telepath’ to her. They were her pets, you know,
and what on earth (or in heaven) would be the use of being Archangelic
if--well, if in a case of the kind the ‘Archs’ couldn’t make good?”

“She’s only jealous,” declared Dorothy. “Her fantails are sure to fly
away to some other country, and so there is no hope for them. They were
such high-flyers.”

“Nat thinks he’s got the game dead to rights,” remarked Ned, with a sly
wink at Dorothy. “But wait until he tries to land it.”

“Exactly!” announced Nat. “Just wait until I do. There’ll be some
doin’s in Birchland, now, I tell you. And if I can’t get the birds
alive, I’ll get their feathers--for the girls’ hats.”

“Oh, I am going to join the Bird Protection Society this very day,” and
Dorothy shivered. “To think that any one can wear real bird feathers--”

“Now that you know real birds--your Archangels, you can see how it
feels,” commented Nat. “We fellows have the same regard for woodcock
or snipe. But just suppose some one should shoot those pretty pigeons,
and give the feathers to a girl for her hat. She’ll wear them, of
course. They were beautiful birds,” and he walked off toward the cage
where only the day previous he had so admired the birds that were now
strangely missing.

“But who took them?” demanded Tavia.

“Of course, if I knew--”

“Said you did,” pouted Tavia, before Nat had a chance to finish the
sentence.

“Now, did I?”

“Well, you said you thought--”

“And I still think. It’s a habit I have. And, by the way, little girl,”
(Nat always called Tavia “little g-ir-l” when he wanted to tease) “it’s
a great thing to think. Try it some time.”

“Well, if I ever get at it, I’ll begin on you,” and Tavia’s Psyche knot
almost fell over on her left ear in sheer indignation.

“Do. I shall be de-lighted. But to be exact,” and he drew from the
pocket of his sweater two feathers, one white and the other copper
color. “Do you recognize these?” and he held the little quills out to
the girls.

“That white one is from a fantail,” declared Tavia promptly.

“And the other--that is certainly from an Archangel,” exclaimed
Dorothy, taking the pretty bit of fluff in her hand, and examining it
closely.

“Well, I found those--”

“Hush!” whispered Ned. “There’s Urania!”




CHAPTER II

THE GYPSY GIRL


With a gait that betokened indolence, and her entire appearance bearing
out that suggestion, a girl with a bright-colored handkerchief on her
head, sauntered along the path in the direction of the little party,
who had been conferring in the “enclosure.” Her feet seemed weighed
down with shoes many sizes beyond her real need, and her dress was so
long that she looked as if she might have been playing grandmother up
in some attic, and had forgotten to leave the things behind after the
game.

“Well, Urania,” began Dorothy, smiling, “you are out early, aren’t you?”

“Haven’t been in yet,” drawled the girl. “So much fussin’ around the
camp last night I just left the wagon to little Tommie, and made a bed
out under the pines.”

“Fussing?” inquired Nat, showing keen interest in the girl’s remarks.

“Yes, comin’ and goin’ and--” She shot a quick glance at the boy who
was listening so intently to her words. Then she peered through the
wire cage over to the dove cote. “What’s the matter?” she asked. “Your
birds sick?”

“Worse,” spoke up Tavia. “They’re gone, stolen!”

“Flew the coop?” said the gypsy girl, with a grim smile. “Them pretty
ones, with the pleated tails?”

“Yes, and those beautiful dark ones,” sighed Dorothy. “Those with all
the colors--like sunset, you know.”

“Too bad,” murmured the strange girl. “Lots of chicken thieves around
here lately. Dad says people will be blaming us. But we’ve been in this
township every summer for ten years, and Dad is just as thick with the
‘cops’ as--the old woman is with the peddlars,” she finished, grinning
at her own wit.

“You didn’t happen to hear any strangers around the camp last night,
did you?” asked Ned, kindly.

“Heard more than that,” answered the girl. “But, say, I came over here
to borrow something. Business is bad, and the old woman wants to know
if you could just lend her a quarter. I didn’t want to ask, as I don’t
forget good turns, and you’ve treated me all right,” with a nod to
Dorothy. “But when the old woman says ‘go’ I’ve got to turn out. She’s
gettin’ awful sassy lately.”

The girl dug the broken toe of her shoe deep into the soft sod.
Evidently she did not relish asking the favor, and as Nat handed her
the coin she looked up with a sad smile.

“Much obliged,” she stammered, “I’ll bring it back the first chance I
get, if I--have to--steal it.”

“Oh, no! I’m making you a present of that,” the youth answered,
pleasantly. “You mustn’t think of bringing it back. But about the
noises at the camp last night? Did you say there were strangers about?”

“Might have been,” answered the girl slowly. “But you know gypsies
never squeal.”

“I don’t expect you to,” followed Nat. “But you see my best birds are
gone, and you, being a friend of ours, might help in the search for
them.”

“So I might,” said Urania. “And if I found them?”

“Why, you would get the reward, of course. I’ve offered a dollar a
piece for them--alive.”

“A dollar apiece?” she repeated. “And how many were swiped?”

“Six--the very best three pairs,” answered the young man. “I’ll have
the reward published in to-night’s paper--”

“No, don’t,” interrupted the girl. “That’s what they’re after. Keep
them guessing for a day or two, and well, maybe the doves will coo loud
enough for you to hear them in the mean time.” At this the gypsy girl
turned away, leaving the party to draw their own conclusions from her
remarks.

And while the others stand gazing after Urania, we may take time to
get acquainted with the various characters who will come and go in
this story, and who have appeared in the other books of this series.
As told in my first volume, called “Dorothy Dale: a Girl of To-Day,”
Dorothy was a daughter of Major Dale, formerly of a little town called
Dalton, but now living with his sister, Mrs. Winthrop White, at North
Birchland. Dorothy’s chum, Octavia Travers, familiarly called Tavia,
was the sort of girl who gets all the fun possible out of life, besides
injecting a goodly portion of her own original nonsense into every
available spot. Dorothy and Tavia had been chums since their early days
in Dalton--chums of the sort that have absolute faith in each other:
a faith sufficient to overcome all troubles and doubts, yes, even
reports that might be sent out by the unthinking or the unkind, for
Tavia naturally got into trouble and kept Dorothy busy getting her out.

Several instances of this kind were told of in the first book of the
series; in the second called, “Dorothy Dale at Glenwood School,” Tavia
developed still greater facilities for finding trouble, while Dorothy
kept up with her in the matter of “development” in smoothing out the
tangles. In the third volume, “Dorothy Dale’s Great Secret,” Tavia came
very near “social shipwreck,” and no one but such a friend as Dorothy
Dale proved herself to be, could have, and actually did, rescue her.

Mrs. Winthrop White, called by Dorothy, Aunt Winnie, was also an
interesting character in the books. She was described by Tavia as a
“society thoroughbred,” and was mother to Ned and Nat, the two jolly
boys whose acquaintance we have just made. These boys were Dorothy’s
cousins, of course, and Tavia’s friends. Tavia was spending part of her
vacation with Dorothy at the Cedars, Mrs. White’s country place. The
boys played an important part in the rescue of Tavia when she tried
to “earn money by going on the stage” with a “barnstorming” company,
when Dorothy herself got into complications at Glenwood School, (trying
to assist a girl who proved entirely unworthy of the interest Dorothy
manifested in her affairs,) it was Tavia who “helped out.” At Glenwood
School we met some of the jolliest sort of boarding school girls, and
were permitted to get a glimpse into the sacred life of those who
consider every boarding school a college junior, and in imitating the
college girl antics actually outdo their elders in the matter of fun
making.

The gypsy girl, Urania, also appeared in a previous volume, and it was
Dorothy’s characteristic wit that then helped the brown-eyed Urania out
of a very unpleasant predicament.

And now this gypsy girl was offered a chance to return a kindness to
Dorothy, for in getting trace of the stolen birds all who lived at the
Cedars, would be relieved of worry, and spared much anxiety, for the
birds had been great pets with the folks there.

But would Urania make her clues clear? Dare she risk gypsy vengeance to
show her gratitude to Dorothy?

“She knows, all right,” remarked Nat, as the girl swung out into the
roadway on her way to the camp.

“But she’ll never tell,” added Ned. “She wouldn’t dare. That Melea, her
stepmother, whom she calls the old woman, is a regular ‘tartar.’”

“I think,” ventured Dorothy, “she might give just a hint. We wouldn’t
want her to do anything that would endanger herself. But if we
guessed--”

“You’re the star guesser, Doro,” put in Tavia. “For my part I never was
any good at that trick. You remember how near I came to the mark at the
Glens’ Donkey party?”

“Then keep away from this tale,” said Nat laughing. “It wouldn’t do for
the clue to be pinned on the wrong party.”

“I must have a talk with Urania alone,” Dorothy said, seriously. “I am
sure she will tell me what she knows about the birds. I’ll go see her
this afternoon--I want to go over to the camp with some things, and
then I will get Urania to walk out with me. It wouldn’t do for Melea to
see our two heads together.”

“Great idea,” commented Ned. “I quite agree with Tavia. You would make
a star detective, Doro. And the best of it is no one would ever suspect
you of being ‘on the rubber.’ Now Tavia--well, she just up and asks,
the most impertinent questions--”

“For instance. Who that nice looking boy is who has been dodging around
here lately?” interrupted Tavia, taking up the young man’s sally, and
adding to the joke on herself. “I must say he is the smartest looking
chap--”

“Oh, the fellow with the red cheeks?” asked Nat.

“Exactly,” answered Tavia, in a serious voice.

“And those deep blue eyes?” questioned Ned.

“I have not seen his eyes--close by,” admitted Tavia, “but with his
hair, they must be deep blue,” and she looked entranced at the very
thought of the “deep blue orbs.”

“Why, I haven’t seen this--Adonis,” said Dorothy, interested. “When
might a body lay eyes on his perfection?”

“He goes along the river road every morning,” Tavia informed her
companion, with great importance.

“And he carries a small leather case, like a doctor’s satchel--only
different?” went on Nat.

“You have certainly observed him closely,” declared Tavia, still
cherishing the importance of her “great find.”

“Yes, I know him,” said Nat.

“So do I,” added Ned.

“Oh, who is he?” implored Tavia, “Do introduce us!”

“Just as you like,” assented Ned, “But he is only a boy--goes to school
in Ferndale every day.”

“I thought so,” and Tavia was more interested than ever. “Where does he
go? He is studying some profession, of course.”

“Hum,” grunted Nat, with a sly wink at Dorothy.

“But just what a hero might be studying, would, of course, not
influence the opinion of such a broad-minded young woman as Tavia
Travers,” challenged Ned.

“I should say--no!” declared Tavia, with mock dramatic effect.

“Well, then, that boy is studying a most remunerative and heroic
profession,” went on Ned.

“I knew it,” cried Tavia, bounding over in front of Ned to get the
important information.

“Yes, he is studying--the plumbing business,” said Ned, and the way he
looked at Tavia--well, she just dropped in a lump at his feet, and when
Nat fetched the wheelbarrow, she still played limp, so they put her in
the barrow, wheeled her up the path, and she “stayed put,” until they
actually carried her indoors.

When she “recovered,” she declared she would waylay the plumber the
very next morning, and have him look over some little jobs that might
be found in need of looking over, by just such an intelligent youth.
The boys seconded this motion, and agreed that a good plumber was a
much more desirable acquaintance than might be a fellow who studied so
many other languages that he necessarily forgot entirely his interest
in English.

“Besides,” said Nat, “A nice little plumber like that, with deep blue
hair and red eyes--”

“And a lunch box that looks like a doctor’s kit,” interrupted Ned.

“Just jealous,” snapped Tavia. “I once knew the loveliest plumber,
never charged me a cent for fixing my bike.”

“And you would forget him for this stranger!” said Dorothy, in tragic
tones.

“No, indeed. I would think of this one in memory of the o-th-er!”
answered Tavia, clapping her hand over her heart, and otherwise giving
“volume” to her assertion.

“Well,” sighed Nat, “If it’s all the same to the ladies, we will
continue our search for the missing birds. Can’t afford to let them
get too far away, and the morning is wasting.”

“Hanged if I’ll tramp another step,” objected Ned, “not for all the
birds in Paradise. My feet are so lame now they feel like the day after
a ball match, and besides, Nat, unless we get an airship and explore
further up, it’s no use. We’ve covered all the lowland territory.”

“All but the swamp,” admitted Nat, “and I have some hopes of the swamp.
That would be just the place to hide a barrel full of stolen pigeons.”

“Or we might look in somebody’s pot-pie,” drawled the brother,
indifferently.

“No, sir,” declared Dorothy, “Those birds would begin to sing when
the pie was opened. Now you boys had better let me take this case. I
have a feeling I will be able to land the game. But I can’t have any
interference.”

“Go ahead, and good luck,” said Ned. “Take the case, the feeling, the
game, the whole outfit. You’re welcome,” and he stretched himself
in the hammock with such evident relish that Tavia could not resist
slipping around the other side, and giving the hammock a push that
“emptied,” the weary boy on the red rug beneath the “corded canopy.” He
lay there--turned up a corner of the carpet for a pillow, and remarked
that in his earlier days, it was said of him that he could roll out
of bed and “finish up on the floor,” and he “guessed he hadn’t quite
forgotten the trick.”

“Now this afternoon I’ll go down to the camp,” announced Dorothy. “So
don’t expect me back--until you see me.”

“Is that a threat?” joked Nat. “Sounds so like the kind of note one
gets pinned to the pillow when there’s been a row. ‘Don’t expect me
back. I am gone out of your life for ever--’” and he pressed his
handkerchief to his eyes, while Ned just rolled around in “agony” at
the thought.

“And she was such a sweet girl!” wailed Tavia, adding her “howl” to the
noise.

Such a racket!

Mrs. White appeared at the French window. “What in the world is the
matter?” she demanded, beholding Ned with his face buried in the
carpet, Nat with his eyes covered in his handkerchief, and Tavia with
both arms “wrapped around her forehead.”

“Oh, mother!” sobbed Nat. “We mustn’t expect her back--”

“And she won’t stand for any interference!” groaned Ned.

“And she’s going with the gypsies,” blubbered Tavia.

“Well,” and Mrs. White joined in the laugh that now evolved from the
reign of terror. “You children do find more ways of amusing yourselves!
But it might not be a bad idea to get ready for luncheon,” with a sly
look at Tavia’s uncovered slip. “Those pigeons seem to have rather
upset the regime.”

“I’m off!” shouted Tavia, with a bound over the low rail of the porch.

“I’m on!” added Nat making himself comfortable on the “tete” beneath
the honey-suckle vines.

“I’m in!” remarked Ned, as he slipped into the hammock.

“And I’m out!” declared Dorothy, with a light laugh, as she jumped off
the steps “out” into the path, then was gone to follow the suggestion
of her Aunt Winnie, for Dorothy had learned that to follow the house
rules was the most important line in the social code of Mrs. Winthrop
White.




CHAPTER III

DOROTHY AT THE CAMP


Under a clump of trees, near a brook and an open meadow, and beside a
broad country road, was pitched the gypsy camp.

This spot was chosen deliberately and with much care. The trees
furnished shade for the tents: the brook furnished water for the horses
and for housekeeping purposes, the meadow furnished pasture for the
cattle, and the roadway furnished trade for the fortune tellers.

Outside the tents were the wagons, with the queer racks, like fire
escapes, running from roof to hub. These racks are used at moving time,
to carry such stuff as might interfere with the inside “berths” during
a long journey, and at other times the racks do service as “store
rooms” for articles not needed in the tents.

In one of the wagons Urania had her sleeping quarters which were shared
by a baby half brother on such occasions as he chose to climb into the
high berth. But little Tommie was a typical gypsy, and often preferred
to cuddle up at the root of a pine tree rather than to “hump” up in hot
pillows in the wagon on summer nights.

So Urania never looked for him--if he were not in bed he must be asleep
somewhere, she knew, so in real Nomad philosophy, Tommie never looked
for Urania, and Urania never looked for Tommie,--the wisdom of living
independently comes very early to members of their class.

Neither do gypsies bother about meal times. They eat when they are
hungry--so it was that Dorothy found Urania eating her dinner at two
o’clock in the afternoon, when she made the promised call at the camp.

There appeared to be no one about the tent but Urania, and when Dorothy
pulled the little camp stool up to the “door” (the opened tent flap)
and seated herself there for a chat with the gypsy girl, she felt she
had chosen an opportune time for the confidential talk with Urania.

“Get the birds?” asked Urania, while eating.

“No,” replied Dorothy, “and I came over to see if you had heard
anything about them.”

“Heard?” sneered the girl, “I thought they were home by this time.”

“Home?” repeated Dorothy, under her breath, for she heard the bushes
rustle close by.

Urania helped herself to more sweet potatoes. She was stretched on a
piece of carpet in the center of the tent, and there spread on the
floor or ground before her was the noon day meal. A huge white cat sat
like an old fashioned chimney corner statue, straight up, at her elbow,
looking over her shoulder in the queerest way.

From a corner of the tent a very small black dog was tugging at its
rope, that just allowed the tiny animal the privilege of drawing in
atmospheric gravy--but the rope was too short to reach the dish. And
the gypsy girl ate her meal with evident relish in such surroundings!

Flashes of the “Simple Life” idea rose before Dorothy’s mind. Was this
what it meant?

Finally the gypsy girl gathered herself up, and without attempting
to remove anything from the ground, not even the remaining
eatables--although there were numbers of chickens about waiting their
turn at the “spread” she came out to where Dorothy sat.

“The old woman’s over there,” she whispered, indicating the back of the
tent. “Suppose we walk along, and talk?”

Dorothy left her parcels down in plain view of the gypsy woman,
Melea, who, upon seeing them, stepped out from her hiding place and
approached the girls.

“I brought you some little things for Tommie,” said Dorothy, “I hope
you can make use of them.”

“Thank you very much, miss,” the woman replied, as she gathered up in
her apron the bundles Dorothy had left in the camp chair. “Tommie does
need things, poor little fellow. And business is awful slow.”

Urania had slipped out to the road side now, and while the woman was
“feasting” on the new things the two girls made their way toward a
quiet path through the woods.

“And the birds are not home yet?” asked Urania, as the barking of the
little dog in the tent became almost beyond hearing.

“No,” answered Dorothy with a question in her voice.

“Well, I saw them leave the swamp, and I thought they would fly
straight home,” declared the gypsy girl.

“Leave the swamp?”

“Hush! Not so loud. Sometimes bushes have ears,” cautioned Urania. “The
birds were tied in the swamp, and--some one cut the cords,” she hissed.

[Illustration: “I brought you some little things for Tommie,” said
Dorothy. _Page 24_]

No need to tell Dorothy who the “some one” was. She glanced gratefully
at the girl walking beside her.

“I must hurry back,” she declared, “and tell the boys. Some one may
trap them.”

Dorothy noticed that Urania stopped often to rub one foot against the
other. She also noticed a frown of pain cover the girl’s brown face,
and now Urania sat down, pulled a torn stocking below her knee, and
attempted to adjust a very dirty rag over her thin limb.

“What is it?” asked Dorothy, seeing in spite of the girl’s evident
attempt to conceal it, that the rag was stained with blood.

“Oh, nothin’” replied Urania, carelessly. “I just scratched my knee,
that’s all,” and she bound the rag about the member as best she could.

“You have torn your limb in the swamp,” declared Dorothy, as the truth
came suddenly to her. “I know that place is full of poison briars--”

“But I don’t poison,” interrupted the girl, getting up to continue her
walk. “Besides it ain’t nothin’,” and she trudged along bravely enough.

“You must have the reward if the birds get back home,” Dorothy said, as
she reached the turn in the path that led to the open roadway.

“Well, money’s all right,” admitted the girl, “but it wouldn’t do for
me to show any just now. You see, there’s a lot of bad gypsies prowlin’
around here. Dad don’t mix in with them, but they’re wise, slick, you
know. And if they should get next, see me limp, and find out I had
fresh scratches, they’d get on to the swamp game quick. So I’ll have to
lay low, and I’ll be much obliged if you will help me out, and tell the
same to the young gents.”

Dorothy could not repress a smile at the girl’s queer way of telling
things, for the slang seemed as natural to Urania as chirping does to a
wood sparrow. Neither did the common expressions sound vulgar, as they
slipped from the full red lips, and became the utterances of the wild
girl of the camps.

“You can depend on me,” whispered Dorothy, pressing Urania’s hand. “And
do be careful to wash those scratches--keep the poison out, you know.”

“Oh, I’m all right,” the other replied. “There comes Tommie, and he’s
got on the new togs. My, but he does look swell!”

Plunging through the bushes came the little gypsy boy, in the “new
togs,” the pretty dark blue sailor suit that Dorothy had bought for
him while in the city a few days before.

“He does look nice,” agreed Dorothy, when the boy stood before her,
waiting for compliments. “And they fit you so nicely,” she continued,
taking a critical look at the blue sailor suit. “But I must hurry off
now. Be a good boy, Tommie, and don’t tear your new clothes in the
bushes,” she cautioned.

“I won’t,” declared the little fellow. “I’m goin’ to town next time dad
goes, and I want to save ’em.”

“That’s right. Good-bye, Urania, look after the scratches,” said
Dorothy, aside, “and if you want any of the reward money, just come
over and tell me. I’ll see that you get it without the others knowing.”

“Much obliged,” stammered Urania. “Come along, Tommie, if you want a
‘piggy-back,’” and she stooped to the ground to allow the boy to climb
on her back. “Now, don’t kick--there. Hold fast!” and at this the
gypsies started down one path, while Dorothy hurried along another, for
it was growing dusk, and the prospect of meeting the “bad gypsies,” the
chicken thieves, that Urania said might be prowling about, was not a
pleasant thought to Dorothy. Fortunately the road was not far away, and
when finally she did reach it, without encountering any “dark figures,”
she breathed a sigh of relief, and then made her way quickly to the
Cedars.




CHAPTER IV

THE MIDNIGHT ALARM


But one week remained now of all the long summer vacation--then school
must be taken up again, and the labor of learning must become both work
and play for our young friends.

Dorothy and Tavia were to go back to Glenwood. Mrs. White had decided
that the girls should not be separated, and consequently she provided
the funds that were lacking on the part of the Travers family; for
Tavia’s father had not been as prosperous in business during the past
summer as he had formerly been, and in spite of many heroic efforts on
his part, it was found impossible to get the necessary money together
to send Tavia back to Glenwood.

It was on the very evening that Dorothy came in from her walk with
Urania, that the school affairs were definitely decided upon.
Mrs. White had received from Mr. Travers an answer to her letter
regarding the school question, and so, when dinner was over, and
stolen pigeons fully and finally discussed (they had not come home,
however), Dorothy, Tavia and Mrs. White--the boys being rigorously
excluded--adjourned to the sitting room to make notes and give notes,
necessary in the formality of getting ready for boarding school.

Mrs. White was a beautiful woman, and her very presence seemed an
inspiration to young girls, she was so gentle, so kind, so charming and
so correct, without being prudish. Even the careless, frivolous Tavia
“went down” beneath Aunt Winnie’s power, and was bound to admit it was
“nice” to be well dressed, and “attractive” to have good manners.

On this particular evening Mrs. White was gowned in the palest
lavender--a delicate orchid shade, and in her hair was a wild flower
that Dorothy had brought in from the woods, the tints of this little
spray toning exactly with the shade of the soft, silky gown.

Dorothy, too, was becomingly dressed. She wore her favorite light
green--the one that Tavia always declared made Dorothy look like a
lily, for her fair head above the “green stalk” easily suggested the
comparison. Tavia, as usual, picked out the first dress that brushed
her face as she entered the wardrobe, but it happened to be a pretty
one, a bright plaid in fine Scotch gingham, that suited Tavia’s high
color and light brown hair admirably.

“Now, my dears,” began Mrs. White, “I think we had best all go to town
together, and then there will be no mistakes made about the sizes of
your school things. The boys will leave for Cadet Hall in a few days,
and after that we will be at liberty to take a whole day in town
without neglecting any one. Major and the little boys” (Dorothy’s
brothers) “will not be home for a week yet, schools do vary so in the
time of opening, so that the thing for us to do now is, first: get Nat
and Ned off, then attend to the shopping. After that we will just have
time for a little reunion with the major and the boys, then it will be
time to pack my girls off. Dear me,” said she, laughing, “I have quite
a large family nowadays, but their care seems to agree with me.”

“You never looked better, Aunt Winnie,” declared Dorothy, with evident
sincerity. “I hope I will grow tall and--straight like you.”

“You are doing your best now, girlie,” her aunt assured her, as she
glanced at Dorothy’s slender form, that made such a pretty picture
against the dark portieres she happened to cling to.

“But I’m getting fat,” groaned Tavia. “My clothes won’t button, and,
oh, I do hate fat!”

“Take more exercise,” said Mrs. White, with a meaning laugh, for
Tavia’s “tom-boy” habits were a confirmed joke among her friends, and
for her “to take more exercise” seemed to mean to climb more fences and
tear more dresses.

The sitting room was on the first floor, just off the side porch,
and the long, low, French windows in the room were draped with a
transparent stuff, but on this evening the shades had not yet been
drawn.

There was a fixed rule at the Cedars that all shades should be drawn
down as soon as the lights were turned on, but the interest in school
talk so occupied our little party that the uncovered windows were
entirely overlooked on this particular evening.

Tavia was seated on a low stool, very close to an open window, and just
as Mrs. White made the remark about the major being away from home,
Tavia fancied she heard a step on the side porch. She was positive
the boys had gone out in their automobile, the Fire Bird, and so was
puzzled as to the sound--it certainly was a step and a very light one,
as well.

But Tavia did not interrupt the talk, in fact, she had no idea of
alarming any one while the boys were away, and perhaps the servants
might be off somewhere, for the evening was a pleasant one, and
everybody seemed to be making the most of these last few fine nights of
summer.

“And about your trunks,” went on Mrs. White, “I think we had better
get larger ones, for you say you did have such a time getting all your
clothes in when leaving school last term. Don’t you think, Tavia--but
what are you listening to?” asked Mrs. White, noting the look on
Tavia’s face. “Do you hear the boys coming? My! we have forgotten to
draw the shades. Dorothy, just draw that one, and, Tavia, close the one
at your elbow. It is never safe to sit by uncovered windows after dark.”

The light from the room fell across the broad piazza and as Tavia put
her arm up to the shade she distinctly saw the line of light outside
crossed by a shadow. She stepped back involuntarily, and at the same
instant Dorothy gave a scream.

“A man!” she called. “He just passed the window. And, oh, he looked at
me so!”

This was all Dorothy could say. Then she sank into a chair trembling
visibly.

“I saw him,” said Tavia, “but I’ve seen him before. I suppose he’s
prowling around for something to eat.”

“There is no need to be so frightened, Dorothy,” said Mrs. White. “We
will just go about and see that things are locked up. I do wish the
boys were in, though, and perhaps you had better call up the stable,
Tavia, and ask John to come down to the house.”

The ’phone to the stable was just at the door of the sitting room, so
Tavia did not have to venture far to call the man. But no answer came
to the summons. John was not in the stable.

“Well, the boys will be back shortly,” Mrs. White said confidently,
“and there is no need for alarm. We will see that the doors are
fastened. You did get a start, Dorothy, but you know, my dear, in the
country people cross lawns and take short cuts without really meaning
to trespass.”

“Oh, I’m all right now,” replied Dorothy, “but it was--sudden. I’ll see
that the shades are drawn at dark after this,” and she laughed lightly
as she followed her aunt and Tavia through the hall to fasten the front
door.

It was strange they should be so alarmed, but they were, and the
measured tread that marked the small procession on its way to the front
door showed plainly that each member of the trio wanted the door
locked, but was not personally anxious to turn the key.

“There,” sighed Mrs. White, when finally her jeweled finger was
withdrawn from the heavy panel. “I have often dreamed of doing
that--and having some one grab me as I turned the key, but I escaped,
luckily, this time. Now we may go back to our school plans. Suppose we
sit in the library, just to get away from the side porch.”

To this welcome suggestion the girls promptly agreed, and if the
intruder who had so disturbed them a few minutes before, chose to
follow them up, and peer through the library windows, he would have had
to cross directly under the electric light that illumined the entrance
to the villa at the Cedars.

But, somehow, Dorothy could not forget the face that she had caught
sight of, and she felt instinctively that the prowler was not a
neighbor “taking a short cut,” for he need not have stepped on the
porch in that case.

So when school matters were settled, and the boys had returned
from their ride in the Fire Bird to hear the account of the little
adventure, and to take extra precautions in locking up the big house,
Dorothy whispered to Ned and Nat her suspicion--that the man who
peeked in at the windows might be one of the bad gypsies, and that he
might know something about the stolen pigeons.

“We ought to set a trap for the rascal,” Ned whispered in answer to
his cousin’s suspicions, “he may be coming back for the rest of the
birds. I wish I had told John to keep his ears open while his eyes were
shut, but it’s too late to do that now,” and then, with every assurance
of safety, and the promise to be up at the slightest alarm, Ned and
Nat said good-night to their cousin, and Dorothy’s fears were soon
forgotten in the sleep that comes to healthy girls after the pleasant
exercise of a lingering summer’s day.

Ned and Nat, too, soon fell into sound sleep, for their evening ride
left in its tracks the pleasant flavor of most persuasive drowsiness,
in spite of the promises made to Dorothy that they would be “on the
lookout” all night, and no intruder should come around the Cedars
without the two youths of the estate being aware of the intrusion.

But alas for such promises! Did boys ever sleep so soundly? And even
Dorothy, though usually one apt to awake at small sounds, “hugged her
pillow” with a mighty “grip,” because, of course, when a girl insists
upon keeping awake just as long as she can keep her eyes propped open,
when the “props” do slip away, sleep comes with a “thud.”

So it was that Tavia, she who made a practice of covering up her head
and getting to sleep in order to avoid trouble (when she heard it
coming)--Tavia it was who heard something very like a step on the side
porch, just after midnight.

Some one has said that it is easier to keep burglars out than to chase
them out: this infers, of course, that it may be wiser to give a false
alarm than to take the opposite course. But true to her principles
Tavia covered up her head, and told herself that it would be very
foolish to arouse the household just because she heard a strange sound.

Yet there was something uncanny about the noise! There it was again!

Tavia raised her head and looked around. Dorothy slept in the alcove
and a light burned dimly from a shaded lamp between the two sleeping
apartments. Tavia could see that her chum was sleeping soundly.

“Dorothy! Dorothy!” she whispered, afraid now to hear her own voice.
“Dorothy! get up! I think I hear some one--”

Crash!

Every one in the house heard that! It came from the dining room and was
surely a heavy crash of glass breaking!

Instantly Dorothy dashed to the door, and putting her finger on an
electric button, flooded the hallways upstairs and down with glaring
light. The next moment she touched another button! The burglar alarm.

And all this time Tavia trembled there, in her bed--she who was wide
awake, and she who usually could boast of some courage!

“Oh!” she kept gasping, “I heard them long ago! They are inside, I’m
sure!”

“Heard them long ago!” Dorothy took time to exclaim, “Then do, for
goodness sake, do something! Get up and make a noise anyway! John will
be in from the stable in a moment. Get up and slip on your robe,” for
Tavia seemed “glued” to the spot.

By this time the boys were out in the hall, Ned with a glittering
revolver clutched firmly in his hand, and his younger brother leading
the way with a night light thrust out like a danger signal.

“Boys! boys!” begged Mrs. White. “Do be careful! Don’t shoot even if
you--Oh, I wish you would wait until John comes. I know I shall faint
if I hear a shot!”

Indeed, the mother was almost in a state of collapse at that very
moment, and Dorothy, meeting her aunt in the hall, quietly put her arm
around her and led her away from the stairway into the secluded alcove.

“Auntie, dear! Don’t be so alarmed,” soothed Dorothy. “They are surely
gone by this time. They never hang around after the lights are turned
on. And when that bell went off, I know they were glad to get off at
that signal.”

“Oh, I’m so--glad--Dorothy, that you turned in the alarm,” gasped Mrs.
White, “for the boys--were determined to go right down upon them--Oh!
I feel some one would surely have been shot--if you had not acted
so quickly!” and the trembling woman sank down on Dorothy’s couch,
thoroughly exhausted.

“There they go! There they go!” called Tavia, throwing up the curtains,
and thrusting her head out of the window.

“See! There’s two men! Running down the path!”

That instant a shot rang out, and then another!

“Oh!” screamed Mrs. White, dashing up and rushing down the stairs with
Dorothy close behind her. “The boys! My boys!” Then she stumbled and
fell into the arms of Ned, who knew how keen would be her anxiety, and
was hurrying to assure her that the shots were only sent out to alarm
the neighborhood, and that John and men from other nearby stables were
now trying to run down the midnight intruders.

“Mother! Mother!” whispered the youth. “Everything is all right. No one
is hurt. Mother, see! Here is Nat now. He didn’t go out. Come, let us
put you to bed.”

“Boys!” breathed Mrs. White, opening her eyes. “I am all right now.
But I was so frightened! Ned--Nat, are you both here? Then I will go
upstairs,” and she rallied bravely. “I do hate so to hear a pistol
shot. It was that--but no one is hurt, and they are gone? No matter
what they took, I am so glad they did get away.”

In spite of the boys’ regard for their mother, it was quite evident
they were not so well pleased at the safe departure of the robbers, but
now they must “put their mother to bed,” and then--

“You girls stay upstairs with her,” whispered Nat to Dorothy, as the
party made its way to Mrs. White’s room. “We may be out for a while. If
she calls us, just say--”

“Oh, leave that to me,” said Dorothy authoritatively. “We can keep the
burglars out now, I guess,” and she laughed lightly at the “guess,”
when there was positive assurance that the burglar scare had entirely
subsided, and that John and the others were on active “picket duty”
about the place.

“What was broken?” Mrs. White asked, more for the sake of saying
something than to express interest in the loss.

“The lamp,” answered Dorothy, “and what a pity. That lamp was such
a beauty. It came as near making moonlight as anything artificial
possibly could.”

“Then we will get a sunshine in place of it,” said Mrs. White,
brightening up.

“Yes, daylight for mine,” added Tavia, with a “scary” face. “Mr. Moon
goes behind a cloud too--”

“Noisily,” finished Dorothy. “At the same time he acted promptly in
this case. It is not a bad idea to have some such safeguard.”

“I always thought the lamp was in the way,” agreed the aunt, “but
as you say, Dorothy, it was in the right way this time. Well,
let us be thankful no one is hurt--it is easy to replace mere
merchandise.”

Dawn was peeping through blinds, and with the first ray of light
quietness again fell upon the Cedars. The servants had gone back to
their rooms, Dorothy and Tavia were again in their “corners,” as Tavia
termed the pretty twin alcoves, allotted the young girls while visiting
at the Cedars, and the young men--well, they did not return to their
rooms. To lose five homing pigeons, and good family silver all within
one week, was rather too exciting for boys like Nat and Ned. There was
something to be done other than sleeping just then.

Even real, daring burglars are only mortal, and sometimes the most
daring are the greatest cowards--when daylight comes and people are
wide awake!




CHAPTER V

AN AWFUL EXPERIENCE


It was two days later, very early in the morning, when Nat went down
to the “enclosure” to feed the lonely birds remaining in the cage,
that he found one of those--a carrier which had been stolen, perched
contentedly on its own particular box!

“Hello!” called out the young man, in delight. “Where did you come
from? So an Archangel did ‘make good,’ as Tavia said. Well, I’m right
glad to see you, Gabriel,” he told the prodigal. “Come down here and
eat. You must be hungry.”

As if the bird understood, it promptly fluttered down to Nat, and came
obediently up to the hand that held some inviting food.

“What’s that on your--A message!” Nat interrupted himself. “Looks like
it. Here, Gabriel, let me get that note off your leg,” and he proceeded
to untie from the bird’s foot a scrap of paper.

“Thought so,” went on the boy, as if the bird had been taking a more
active part in the conversation than that of fluttering its wings and
cooing happily. “A message--from--Let me see,” and Nat sat down on the
edge of the scratch box.

“This is a scrawl, too scrawly for me, I’m afraid. That’s ‘c-o-me’
come,” and he peered through the thin paper at the indistinct letters.
“And next is s-w-a-mp, swamp. ‘Come swamp.’ That’s it, all right. It’s
a message telling us to go to the swamp,” and Nat jumped up, delighted
to have deciphered the queer note.

“Maybe it’s signed,” he reflected, looking over the paper again
carefully. “Yes, there’s a letter, and it’s a ‘U,’ u for--for--why,
Urania, of course,” he decided instantly. “Well, we’ll go to the swamp,
Urania, and see what’s doin’ there. I had an idea right along that we
might find the pigeons around the swamp.”

The pigeon was now strutting around in its own confident way, as if the
hardships through which it had so lately passed were all forgotten, and
only the freedom of the Cedars, with all the good “pickings” and the
brook berries to nibble at, were now questions to be considered.

“Go ahead, Gabriel, help yourself. Take more and plenty of it,” said
Nat, as he started off.

Nat was not long in reaching the house and making his find known to the
folks there. Dorothy read and re-read the message that the bird had
brought, and declared she had been positive all along that a clue to
the two burglaries would come through Urania.

“Now, that’s what I call good, sensible telepathy,” said Tavia, when
her turn came ’round to read the wonder note. “Pencil and paper and
a few words--even though they be rather--well, I should call them
‘spooky,’” and she smoothed the bit of precious paper out carefully on
the palm of her hand.

“But what’s the answer?” demanded Ned. “Why should the girl order us to
the swamp? Couldn’t she as well come here and put us next the game?”

“No,” answered Dorothy decisively. “I have been trying to get a word
with Urania for the last two days--since the night the silver was
stolen, and every time I see her, she darts away like a wild deer. She
seems afraid to speak to me, as if some one were watching her.”

“More like it,” agreed Nat. “She knows about the birds and the goods
and they (the other gypsies) know that she will give them away if she
gets the chance, so they are keeping the chance at a distance. Then,
she was inspired, yes, I would call it inspired” (for both Tavia and
Ned had attempted to faint when Nat grew eloquent). “I say she was
inspired,” he repeated, “to send the message a la pigeon. Now it’s ‘up
to us’ to go to the swamp and do the rest.”

“No, I insist,” said Dorothy, with marked emphasis, “that I must go
first. I must, if possible, see Urania, and by some sign find out from
her how the ground lays. Then, if all is ready, we may proceed to the
swamp.”

“Aladdin and the seven Robbers were not in it with this stunt,”
exclaimed Tavia, with a hearty laugh. “I hope I don’t get locked in the
cave. This is certainly mysterious. I suppose we will have to get out
our boots to go a-swamping. I tried that gully once, and came out wiser
than I went in. Also heavier. I brought back with me a ton of splendid
yellow mud.”

“Now, the thing for you all to do,” advised Dorothy, with much
seriousness, “is to keep this matter very quiet. Don’t say a word about
it to any one, remember, not even to John. Then, I’ll go out and try to
see Urania, and find out what it all means. When I come back, which I
will do in an hour at the most, we can go to the swamp and--”

“And swamp the swampers,” interrupted Nat. “I had made up my mind to
swat the fellow I would find guilty of swiping those birds, but now I’m
content to swamp and swat the swipers.”

“Great,” admitted Ned. “But first catch your bird, that’s the old way,
I believe. After you have the bird, you may turn on the swipsy swampy
swipping.”

“Couldn’t I go with you, Doro?” asked Tavia, “you might need some
protection. There’s no telling what our friends may want to steal next.”

“Oh, I’m not a bit afraid,” replied Dorothy. “I know the folks at the
camp.”

“But just the same,” cautioned Ned, “it might be more prudent to take
Tavia along. I have heard there are other gypsies about than those in
the camp. And two girls are better than one, if it is only a case of
yell.”

“But if Urania sees any one with me she is sure to hide,” protested
Dorothy. “She has been running away from me for days.”

“All the more reason why she might run towards me,” insisted Tavia.
“Now, Doro, we usually let you have your own way, but in this
particular case you may have noticed that a reward is at stake, and I
just love rewards. So I’m going.”

At this Tavia picked up a light parasol that stood in a recess of the
porch, and dashing it up jauntily, started off down the path with the
protesting Dorothy.

The young men waved a “good luck” to the messengers, then they made
their way to the “enclosure,” to fully investigate the “carrier” that
had brought the clue to the captivity of its mates.

The girls had but a short distance to walk to the camp, and before they
reached the grassy sward that surrounded the home of the gypsies, they
had caught sight of Urania.

“There she is,” declared Tavia, as a flash of bright skirts darted
through the bushes.

“Yes,” agreed Dorothy, “that is Urania, but she has seen us and is
getting away.”

“Then I’ll head her off,” said Tavia, making a sudden turn and running
in the direction the gypsy girl was taking.

“But you won’t meet her that way,” called Dorothy. “You can’t cross the
spring. I’ll go this way. She must either stay in the deep brush, or
come out at the end of the path.”

“Oh, I see you know the trail,” answered Tavia. “Well, ‘it’s up to you
then.’ I’ll stand guard. And, besides, your shoes are stronger than
mine, so a dash through the spring will not give you the same brand of
pneumonia that might be ‘handed out’ to me. So long!”

At this the two girls parted, Dorothy taking a roundabout path into
the deep wood, while Tavia serenely sat herself down to enjoy a late
picking of huckleberries, that were hiding on a bush just at her elbow.

For a few minutes Tavia was so engrossed in eating the fresh fruit she
entirely forgot her “picket duty,” and when she finally did straighten
up to see where Dorothy might be going, that young lady was not only
out of sight, but likewise out of hearing!

Alarmed, Tavia shouted lustily, but no answer came to her call.

“She may not be able to call back without fear of arousing the bad
gypsies,” thought Tavia, “All the same, I wish I had seen which way she
went.”

With increasing anxiety Tavia waited at the turn of the path. Every
rustle through the leaves, every chirp of a bird, startled the girl.
Surely this was a deep woods for a young girl like Dorothy to be
entering alone. And after Tavia assuring Dorothy’s cousins she would go
with her, and look out for her!

Finally, as the minutes grew longer, and no trace of Dorothy appeared,
Tavia could no longer stand the nervous strain, and she determined to
go straight to the gypsy camp, and there make inquiries.

“What if it does get Urania into trouble,” she argued. “We can’t afford
to lose trace of Dorothy for that.”

Quickly Tavia made her way through the brush over to the canvas houses,
and there in front of one of the tents she encountered the woman Melea.

“Have you seen Miss Dale?” asked Tavia, without any preliminaries. “She
started through the woods and I can’t find her.”

“Hasn’t been around here lately,” replied the woman with evident
truthfulness. “Last I saw her she came down with some clothes for
Tommie. That was days ago.”

“Where’s Urania?” demanded Tavia next.

“Oh, she ain’t around here any more,” answered Melea. “She got too
sassy--didn’t know which side her bread was buttered on, and her father
just ‘shooed’ her off.”

“Off where?” insisted Tavia, now fearful that Dorothy would fall into
the hands of those who were intent upon punishing Urania, and who,
therefore, might take revenge upon Urania’s friends also.

“I don’t know where she’s gone,” snapped the woman, turning impatiently
to go inside the tent.

“But being a good fortune teller,” said Tavia, “can’t you guess? Didn’t
I see her running through the woods a short time ago?”

“I guess not,” sneered the woman. “If you did, it must have been her
ghost. She ain’t around these parts,” and at this the woman entered the
tent, drawing the flap down as she did so.

“Well!” exclaimed Tavia aloud, “this is interesting. But not altogether
comfortable. I see we will have to get a searching committee out, and I
had better make arrangements promptly.”

A half-hour later Ned, Nat and Tavia reached the spot in the wood where
the two girls had parted.

“Are you sure she took that path?” Ned demanded of Tavia.

“Positive,” replied the frightened girl. “I just sat down here to wait
for her, and she went completely out of sight.”

“It might have been better to watch which way they went--might have
seen the bushes move,” ventured Nat. Then, noting that Tavia was
inclined to become more excited, he added: “Of course, she must be
around here somewhere. There is really no cause for alarm. She may be
hiding, just to give us a scare.”

“Oh, Dorothy would never do that,” sighed Tavia. “I can’t imagine what
could become of her. And Urania is gone, too. They must be together.”

“You take that path and I will work through the bushes,” said Nat to
Ned. “This swamp must open out somewhere, and I’ll bet we find the
girls in that ‘open.’”

Tavia called and whistled, while the boys hunted and yelled. The
“yodle” (a familiar call used always by the boys, Dorothy and Tavia),
was given so often the very woods seemed to repeat the call.

It was becoming more and more discouraging, however, for, in spite of
all efforts, not an answer came back, and no trace of the missing ones
could be obtained.

Finally Nat shouted to his brother to follow him, as he “had struck a
new trail.”

“Come along, Tavia,” Ned called in turn. “This woods may be the
swallowing kind, and you might get gobbled up too. Keep close to us
now.”

There was no need to urge the girl in that direction, for the woods had
indeed a terror for her now, and she felt more inclined to run straight
home than to help further in the search. But this, she knew, would
look cowardly, so she determined to follow the boys into the marshy
wilderness.

It was a rough way--that winding path, for the thick brush grew so
closely over it that only the bend of the bushes showed there had been
a path there, and that it was now seldom, if ever, used, save as a run
for frightened rabbits, or a track for the hounds that followed them.

“There!” exclaimed Nat. “See that open? Didn’t I tell you we would find
one? And there--what’s that over there at the hill? A cave, as I live.
Now we are ‘going some.’”

“But, oh, Nat!” whispered Tavia, who had come up very close to him.
“Look! There are men--over there! See, by that tree! Oh, I shall die, I
am so frightened! They may have guns!”

“Well, so have we for that matter. You just keep your nerve. No danger
that those fellows will attack us,” and the young man clapped his hand
on his hip pocket to indicate the surety of his weapon there.

Ned, at that same time, had caught sight of the men hiding. He came
over to where Tavia and his brother stood.

“Don’t let them see us,” he cautioned. “Just get back of that clump of
bushes, and we will both fire together. They’ll skip then, I guess.”

Without moving a bush, or rustling a leaf, the trio crept behind the
thick blackberry vines, and the next moment two shots rang out through
the gully! The report echoed against the very hill where the men were
crouching.

Instantly they sprang out into the open space. There were two in number
and Tavia recognized them. They were the “bad gypsies,” those turned
out of the camp and away from the camping grounds where the other
families of gypsies had their quarters.

“Gypsies!” she whispered to Ned.

“Hush!” he cautioned, with a finger on his lips.

Only for a moment did the men stay in sight. Evidently they were trying
to locate the direction whence the shots came, but not being able to
do so, they, realizing the “enemy” had the entire advantage of them,
turned and fled!

Up the hill, across the path, out of the woods and even along the
roadside they ran--ran as if a band of constables were at their heels.

“Didn’t I tell you?” said Ned. “Look at them go,” as from the higher
position on the hill side the men could still be seen making their
escape.

“A pity to let them go,” murmured Nat, “but we’ve got to find the
girls.”

“Oh, I would like to go up a tree and stay there,” sighed Tavia, who
was still badly frightened.

“Guess we’re all ‘up a tree’ this time,” answered Nat, lightly. “But
I’m for the cave. Come along, Ned, and keep your gun handy.”

Tavia followed the boys across the open sward although she trembled so,
she could scarcely make one foot step in front of the other. What if
men should be in the cave, and pounce out on them!

“You needn’t worry,” Ned assured her, seeing her white face. “There are
no more gypsies in this hole. They would have answered the shots same
as the others did, if they had been about.”

“Neat little cave,” remarked Nat, as they came nearer the hut. “Didn’t
know we had anything like that around here.”

They were now directly in front of the “hole in the hill.”

The top of this cave was covered with grass and ground, so that from
the upper part of the hill, where the walk was common, the cave would
never be suspected. But that the place was lined with brick and stone
was plain to our friends, for they stood now in front of the opening,
and this was a perfectly shaped door, surrounded by even rows of bricks.

“An old ice house,” declared Ned. “There must have been a big house
around here and this was the ice storage.”

“Yes, there are ruins just over there,” said Tavia, indicating a spot
at some distance down a gully.

“Call,” said Ned. “Tavia you call, they might be frightened at the
sound of a man’s voice if they are in there.”

“Dorothy! Dorothy!” called Tavia, standing as near the door of the
cave-hut as she dared trust herself to go.

Then they waited.

“Someone is moving inside,” said Ned, “I’m going in. She may not be
able to come out.”

“Oh, don’t go in,” pleaded Tavia, “they may only be trying to trap you.”

“Well, I’ll take chances,” insisted the boy.

“And I’m with you,” declared his brother. “We’ve got to see who is
there. Keep your gun handy, Ned.”

So saying, and each with a revolver ready in his hand, the brothers
entered the cave.

Tavia dropped on her knees! It was one of those awful moments when only
Providence seems strong enough to help.

But scarcely had she buried her face in her hands than she heard her
name called.

“Come on, Tavia,” said Nat, appearing at the door of the cave, “We’ve
found her all right, come inside and see!”

Fear fled with the words.

Found Dorothy! Oh, and in that awful place!

The girl sprang from her knees and she, too, entered the dark place.

“Dorothy!” she cried as the lost one fell into her arms. “Oh, Dorothy
dear! What you must have suffered!”

“Yes, but let us get her outside,” insisted Ned. “This is no place to
revive her. Come on Coz. You needn’t be the least bit frightened. We
saw the fellows run over the hill. They’re in another town by this
time. Just hang on to me. There, now I’ve put the gun away, so you
won’t be afraid of that!”

“Oh,” gasped Dorothy, as she breathed the fresh air again. “What an
awful experience! But, oh, I am so glad now--now I’m safe again,” and
she sank exhausted on the grassy field.

“You poor darling,” whispered Tavia, fondling her lovingly. “And to
think that I let you get entirely out of my sight. And I had promised
to take care of you. Oh, Dorothy, how can you forgive me!” and at
this Tavia burst out crying--the nervous strain of the past few hours
summing up now into the girls’ ever ready cure-all--a good cry!

“Now, do you girls think you could stay here without--committing
suicide or being kidnapped, while Ned and I just go in and explore?”
asked Nat. “We saw the ‘goods’ in there, and there’s no time like the
present.”

Dorothy and Tavia promised to “keep out of mischief,” so the two
brothers again entered the cave.




CHAPTER VI

“THE GOODS”


“Nothing develops like developments,” declared Nat when a few minutes
later he emerged from the cave, with a small crate in his arms.

“The pigeons!” cried the girls, and Tavia jumped up to help Nat set the
box down carefully.

“The very goods--note that I delivered them,” said Nat in joyous tones.
“Now, there’s more stuff inside, and we may as well deliver them all on
one trip. Watch that crate, Tavia. Don’t let some fairy fly out of the
tree and carry it off.”

But Tavia was too interested examining the contents of the crate
(through the bars, of course) to notice Nat’s remark.

“Isn’t it splendid to find them!” she asked of Dorothy.

“Yes,” replied the girl, who still lay limp on the grass, “I think
I should have died in there but for their cooing. They seemed to be
telling me to keep up. And as I listened I felt some one was coming--I
guess I heard you long before you found me.”

“But how in the world did you get in there?” asked Tavia.

“Urania showed me the place, and they were after us--but I can’t talk
about it now, Tavia, I feel that even now they may be near.”

“All right dear. Forgive me for asking you,” answered Tavia, now so
eager to make up for the mistake she had made in “losing” Dorothy.

“The same thing only different,” exclaimed Ned, as he came out of
the cave with a big black bag in his arms. “This is our silver,
ladies--Silver, this is our ladies,” he joked, as he brought the bag
over and dropped it at Dorothy’s feet.

“Oh!” exclaimed both girls.

“Isn’t that splendid!” continued Dorothy. “I did not know that was in
there. But do let us go home now, boys. If there is any thing else we
can--you can come back for it, and you will be safer with John.”

“I guess that’ll be about all,” answered her cousin. “Now, how will we
load up! Ned you take the crate, and I’ll put the bag on my back. There
must be coal in the bottom, for our silver didn’t weigh a ton.”

[Illustration: “This is our silver, ladies” _Page 60_]

It took but a few moments to “load up,” and presently the party was
making their way to the open road, having decided to take the longest
way ’round, for the shortest way home.

“Poor little Urania!” sighed Dorothy, as she reached the broad bright
roadway. “I wonder which way she went?”

“A pity we couldn’t find her,” said Nat, “but we’re not through looking
yet. She must be found before night fall.”

“And those awful men,” gasped Dorothy. “I do believe if they found her
they would kill her!”

“Not if we find her first,” grunted Ned, for his load was so heavy he
had to talk in “chunks.”

“Does Aunt Winnie know?” asked Dorothy, anxiously.

“Not a word,” replied Nat as he shifted the crate to a change of hands.
“And she must not know. We can say we were in the woods and found
the stuff all right, but she must not get a word of Dorothy in the
cave. She would never trust us again if she did. And to Doro would be
assigned a special officer as a body guardian the rest of her days.
Now of course, a special officer is all right when a girl picks him
herself, but the mammas always make a point of selecting the least
attractive, I believe.”

The girls tried to laugh at the youth’s attempt to cheer them up, but
it was only a feeble effort that responded.

“All the same, I call it great luck to get the goods,” insisted Ned,
“and only for Doro’s scare the game would be all to the goal.”

“Well I wouldn’t want to go through it again,” answered Dorothy, “but
having it over I, too, think it is a good thing to get the birds and
the silver. I would be almost happy if I only knew about Urania.”

“Now, just as soon as we deposit this stuff safely--the birds in their
nests and the silver in the pantry, we will sneak off somewhere, and
you must give us the whole story. Then, we will know which way to go to
look for the gypsy girl.”

Just as they turned into the path that led up to the Cedars the party
met John. He had been sent out by Mrs. White to look for the “children.”

“Oh, here, John, take this bag!” called Ned as he approached, “my back
is just paralyzed.”

“No take this crate,” demanded Nat. “He’s only got one back paralyzed,
I’ve got two arms broken!”

“Set them down, set them down,” answered the man. “What in the
world--the birds! Well, so you found them?”

“So--we--did!” panted Ned, as he dropped the bag.

“And what’s this?” asked John, taking a look into the black muslin
bundle. “The silver! Well now! Did you raid a pawn shop?”

“No, sir, we raided a hole in the hill,” replied Nat.

“And we pulled the hole in after us,” added Ned.

The man thought the boys only joking, but he promptly took up the crate
with many kind “coos” to the birds, and proceeded with them to their
quarters, telling the boys, as he went, that the “creatures” were both
starved and choked, and that their wants should be attended to at once.

“Then it’s up to me to bag it again,” said Ned, “although I do think,
Nat, you might shuffle for a new deal.”

When the recovered silver had been examined it was found that one
article was missing--a piece of untold value to the White family. This
was an old Indian drinking cup, that Professor White in his travels
through India had acquired. It happened to be the last present Mrs.
White’s husband and the boys’ father had sent home before his sudden
death, and on account of this intimate association with her husband’s
last days Mrs. White prized the old dark cup beyond estimate.

Nat and Ned hesitated to make the loss known to their mother and as a
matter of fact she did not know of it until some time later. In the
meantime they hurried to make all possible search and inquiries but
without any satisfactory result. The old cup could not be found.

John went with the boys back to the cave and all three searched every
crack and crevice in hopes of locating the missing piece of silver, but
it was nowhere to be found. Following this they even visited the gypsy
camp and asked there if an old silver cup might have been seen about
the woods (being careful of course not to mention recovery of the other
things) but Melea with scant ceremony dismissed the boys declaring,
“she didn’t know nothin’ ’bout their old tin cups.”

So they were obliged to let the matter rest, although it was understood
the finding of the cup would mean a very great delight to Mrs. Winthrop
White.

It was still that eventful morning, although the hour was crowding
noon-day, when the boys, with Tavia, insisted on Dorothy at once
telling the story of her “Wild West” adventure as Ned termed it.

“Come out on the side lawn under the trees,” directed Nat. “There no
one will hear us, or suspect us of holding a secret session.”

The plan was agreed upon, and presently Dorothy was made the center of
the interested group, all sitting on the grass under the Cedars.

“I don’t know all the story myself,” insisted the girl, “for you see
Urania ran off and left me without most of the particulars.”

“Speak of angels--there’s Urania now,” Ned interrupted, “she is looking
for you, Dorothy.”

“Urania!” called Dorothy, stepping out on the path. “Come over here.
Oh, I am so glad she’s all right,” she finished, as the gypsy girl
sauntered up to the party.

“Well!” drawled Urania, looking keenly at Dorothy, “so you got back?
Ha! ha! wasn’t they easy--them fellers?” and she laughed heartily at
the thought. “Think of me givin’ them a steer! ha! ha!” and the girl
rolled over on the grass as if the entire affair had been a good joke.

“But I didn’t feel much like laughing when you left me in that cave
alone,” protested Dorothy. “I felt as if my last moment had about
arrived.”

“Well, I couldn’t do any better,” asserted Urania, now realizing that
it might not be polite for her to laugh when Dorothy had had such an
awful experience.

“I’ll tell you,” put in Ned, “Dorothy you tell your part of the story,
and now Urania is here she can tell hers. We are anxious to hear it
all. Talk about Wild West shows! If this isn’t about the limit. Go
ahead Doro.”

At this all made themselves comfortable, Urania sitting in real gypsy
fashion, her elbows resting lazily on her knees and her feet crossed
under her.

“Well,” began Dorothy, “I found Urania some time after I left Tavia.
She was picking berries near the spring. I asked her about the message
the pigeon brought, and she told me that the men who stole the birds
and silver had been arrested this morning, but that she knew where the
things were.”

“And didn’t I?” interrupted Urania, more to confirm Dorothy’s statement
than to ask the question.

“Indeed you did,” went on Dorothy. “Then we went to the swamp.”

“Weren’t you afraid?” asked Tavia.

“Not when Urania declared the men were safe in jail,” explained Dorothy.

“But they were not safe in jail,” insisted Tavia, “didn’t we see them
in the gully?”

“Those wasn’t the guys,” answered Urania, “them was the other fellers’
pals. They didn’t know much about the game, they were just sneaking
around trying to get next.”

“Oh,” replied Tavia, vaguely, in a tone of voice that might have suited
the entire list of interjections with equal indifference.

“To proceed,” prompted Nat.

“Yes,” went on Dorothy, “we went to the hill and Urania showed me the
ice house where she told me the things were put by the men who had
taken them. She said her father knew they were there, but that he would
not touch them.”

“Dad’s no thief,” spoke up the gypsy girl, “but he’s no sneak either,
and he wants me to mind my own business. But I thought I could find
the stuff and wanted to get the things back to you--you had treated me
white, and I--I don’t go back on my friends.”

“Three cheers for Urania!” Nat exclaimed in a hoarse subdued yell, “and
three more cheers for her friends!”

When the “cheering” was over Dorothy again tried to tell her story.

“Where was I at?” she asked.

“At the cave,” replied Tavia, eager to hear the “real hold up,” part of
the play.

“Yes, Urania went in first and assured me it was all right. Then I went
in--and then--”

“Next!” called off Nat. “Now Urania it’s up to you! You’ve got her in
the cave now.”

“That’s right,” answered the gypsy girl, showing her enjoyment at the
little farce. “Yes, she went in and I stayed out. Next moment I sees
them guys over back of the big tree--!”

“Oh, do let me yell?” begged Tavia, “this is all going on without the
least bit of enthusiasm from the audience.”

“I’ll make you yell if you don’t keep still,” threatened Nat. “The
next person who interrupts this performance will be bounced from the
show--and I’m the official bouncer.”

“When I sees them over there,” went on Urania, “first I got
scared--thought it was Clem and Brown, the fellows who were put in the
‘jug’ (jail) this morning. But next thing I sees them better and I knew
it was the strangers. I just told Dorothy to lay low, and not to move
or come out for her life. Then I runs over to the big tree, waving my
hands like a ‘lune,’ making on I was giving the guys the tip. Wasn’t
that easy?”

“What?” asked Nat, “waving your hand like a lune?”

“Yep, and them fellers believing me. Skip! I told them. The cops is
in the cave! Run! ‘They’ve got the goods’ and if they didn’t take the
steer and start out just as you fired the guns.”

“And we were the ‘cops’ on the spot!” interrupted Nat. “What did I tell
you? If this doesn’t beat all the Wild West shows ever wild wested! The
Pretty Girl in the cave--The Kidnapper behind a tree! Then the handsome
young fellow (me) to the rescue. The tip of the gypsy maid! Tavia wants
to sneak. She is calmed by the handsome young fellow. Guns--Bang! Bang!
Bang! The Kidnapper--”

“Oh, ring off!” called Ned. “How many acts in that drama?”

“But isn’t it great? I’ll stage it for the boys next winter. They have
been looking for just such a winner--”

“Better get it copyrighted first,” suggested Ned. “Or some of the boys
might steal the pretty girl.”

“Now who is interrupting?” asked Tavia. “Where is the ‘bouncer’ this
time?”

“Bouncing!” replied Nat, suiting his words to queer antics that greatly
amused Urania.

“You have lots of fun--don’t you?” she ventured aside to Dorothy, while
a wistful look came into her dark face.

“Sometimes,” replied Dorothy kindly. “Don’t you ever have any fun?”

“Nope, fun ain’t for poor folks.”

“But where were you, Urania, when we were getting the things out of the
cave?” asked Tavia, determined to hear all of the story.

“Eatin’ water cress over by the big tree. I saw you was gettin’ along
all right, so I didn’t see any need to mix in.”

“Which reminds me,” said Dorothy, “that it must be lunch time. I’m
famished. Urania, you must stay to lunch. You have worked hard this
morning, and you are up since--”

“Since last night,” finished the girl, “I didn’t bother turnin’ in! I’m
goin’ to quit the camp--this time for good.”

“Well, let us eat first and quit after,” said Nat, as a maid appeared
on the porch to call them to luncheon. “Come along, Urania. You are
entitled to the best there is. Take plenty of it--you’re welcome.”

This was Nat’s kind way of putting the girl at her ease, and when the
others went into the dining room, Dorothy took Urania out into the
kitchen and told the cook to give her a good dinner for “she needed it.”

“I’ll see you after lunch, Urania,” said Dorothy, as she left the girl
smelling the savory dishes that were being served to her.

“All right, miss,” answered Urania, “I’m in a hurry to get away. Some
one might want me at the camp,” with a significant look, that meant she
might be called to explain her queer conduct of the early morning in
the swamp.




CHAPTER VII

A STRANGE GIRL


“Now that it’s all over, and we can think without a guide,” said
Dorothy, coming out from the luncheon table, “we really ought to
consider Urania--we ought to consult Aunt Winnie about her, and see
what would be best to do. She must not run away and be left out in the
world alone.”

“My sentiments exactly,” spoke up Ned, who had taken from the table a
few crackers just to show the pigeons he was glad to have them home
again. “Come along down to the ‘enclosure’ and when we have interviewed
the prodigals on their adventures in the wild west show that ‘busted’
up in a shooting match, then we may be able to ‘get cases’ on Urania. I
notice she had not yet found her way out of the kitchen.”

“The poor child was famished,” said Dorothy. “I never saw any one eat
with such relish.”

“The only real way to eat,” declared Ned. “I believe it would be a good
thing for us all to get starved once in a while--when cook is in good
humor.”

“Well, I feel better at any rate,” declared Nat. “It’s all very well
to travel with a show, but I do like to stop off long enough to get
acquainted with my digestive organs.”

“The proper caper,” agreed Tavia. “I now feel able to discuss anything
from girls to gullies.”

“Girls have it,” declared Nat. “Girls to the bat!”

“Now please don’t waste time,” cautioned Dorothy. “You know what a
sudden sort of affair Urania is. She is just as apt to disappear before
we have a chance to talk to her, as she is to come over to thank us for
her luncheon. I am making a study of her sort of sentiment--I believe
it is more solid and more sincere than any we can work up.”

“Hurrah!” called Nat. “Studying sentiment! That’s better than studying
French. Because sentiment we have always with us, and French only comes
around on the Exams. Dorothy, you are growing older every minute.”

“And you--”

“Handsomer,” he interrupted Tavia. “Tavia I know exactly how you regard
me, but don’t let’s give it away all at once.”

Thus thrown entirely off her guard Tavia had nothing better left to do
than to chase Nat down to the enclosure, where together they fed the
returned birds the crackers that Nat had pilfered from the lunch table.

“Dorothy,” began Tavia, handing out the last crumbs, “certainly is a--”

“Brick!” finished the young man, who had a most satisfactory way of
finishing things generally. “Yes, I agree with you. She certainly went
some in that cave. Jimminnie! But that was creepy!”

“I should say so! I nearly collapsed on the outside. And now she is
going to try to straighten Urania out.”

“And likely she’ll do it too. If I do say so Dorothy has made good use
of the fact that she is a first cousin to Nat White.”

“Of all the conceits!” cried Tavia, and then Dorothy and Ned appeared.

“I’ve been talking to Aunt Winnie,” began Dorothy, in her usual prompt
way, “and she thinks we really ought to do something for Urania. The
girl declares she will never go back to camp, and I really do believe
she has a notion of following us to Glenwood. You know her folks camped
in the mountains there last year.”

“Take her along, take her along,” spoke up Nat, foolishly, “the more
the merrier.”

“Not exactly,” objected Dorothy. “Urania would scarcely enjoy the
regime at Glenwood. But, all the same, there ought to be some place
where she would fit in.”

“And if there is no such place then we will make one,” went on Nat,
still half joking,--but he was the other half in downright earnest.

All this time John and the village constables were searching for the
runaway men, who were suspected of being the actual robbers, although
Urania declared they were not. It was true, as the gypsy girl said, the
men taken into custody were the men she had seen enter the cave, and
those who were seen later in the swamp were members of the same gang,
but were strangers to the cave and the hidden property. Just how Urania
came into possession of the facts was not altogether plain, but likely
her habit of sleeping under trees, at some distance from the tents,
made it possible for her to hear queer conversations, when all in the
dense wood was supposed to be wrapt in the mantle of night.

Her father took no part in the doings of the other gypsies, neither did
he know anything of the robbery, beyond that which was already public
gossip. When therefore he heard his daughter’s name mentioned so
conspicuously in the robbery talk, his wrath was intense, and his anger
almost dangerous.

The whole place was in a commotion, and it was well that Urania kept
away from the swamp and surrounding camp sites for the time being.




CHAPTER VIII

THE RUNAWAY


The excitement of the day had the effect of shortening the hours, and
night came before the young folks at the Cedars realized that the day
was done.

The matter of “doing something for Urania,” had been the all absorbing
topic during the evening meal, when the various plans talked of during
the day were brought up for final consideration.

Mrs. White agreed with Dorothy that the gypsy girl should be sent to
some school, and the boys, Nat and Ned, had formed the committee that
went to the camp to consult with the girl’s father about the matter.

As Urania had warned them, the trip was entirely unnecessary, for the
man seemed to care very little where Urania went.

Such was the report brought back by the “committee.”

But to find a school where Urania would be received was not an easy
task. Mrs. White, as well as Dorothy, had been telephoning to the city
offices during the afternoon, and as Nat said, they had landed one
school where girls would be taken in without reference, but they didn’t
find a place where they would undertake to train circus riders, and
Urania wanted a pony, she said, more than an education.

In fact the girl did not agree to go to school at all, in spite of all
the efforts the others were making “to fix her up.”

Dorothy and Tavia had told her all about the good times she would
have, and had even recalled some of the most exciting incidents that
had marked their own school days at Glenwood, but Urania was not
easily persuaded. Still, all the clothes that could be spared from
the wardrobes of Dorothy and Tavia were taken out, and as only a few
more days remained before the girls would start for Glenwood, it was
necessary to arrange Urania’s affairs as quickly as possible, so that
she would not be left behind when the others were not at the Cedars to
keep track of her.

That night Urania was to stay with John’s wife in her rooms over the
coach house. Dorothy brought her down to the house after supper, and
even gave her one of her own sleeping gowns, besides a comb and brush,
the first the poor girl had ever owned.

“And now good night,” said Dorothy, when she had settled the girl
comfortably, “in the morning you will be all ready to start for
Deerfield. Just think how lovely it will be to go to a real boarding
school.”

“Can I go out when I like?” asked Urania, anxiously.

“Why, of course,” replied Dorothy, “that is, you can when it is
recreation hour--time for play you know.”

“And I will have to sleep on a bed and eat off a table? You know I
never did eat off a table until I came to your house.”

“Oh, but you’ll soon get used to that,” Dorothy assured her, “and you
will like it much better than eating off the--ground. And surely it is
very nice to sleep on a good, soft bed.”

“It’s nice all right,” admitted the other, “but you see it’s different.
I don’t know as gypsies are like other folks about things. My own
mother lived in a house one time, but I never lived in a house.”

“But now you won’t be a gypsy any longer,” said Dorothy. “You are going
to be a nice girl, learn to read and write and then when you get
older, you can go to work and be just like other people.”

“Won’t be a gypsy any more?” asked Urania, evidently not pleased at the
thought.

“Well, I mean you will give up gypsy ways. But now I must go back to
the house. I’ll be up early to go with you. Mrs. White is going to
take us in the Fire Bird. I’ll have all your clothes ready. Be sure to
use plenty of soap and water in the morning,” finished Dorothy, as she
hurried off, well pleased that all arrangements were finally complete,
and that she had had the courage to give the gypsy girl her first
lessons in personal cleanliness.

And it was now time for every one to pack up and make ready to start
off for the new school term. The boys were to leave the following
afternoon, (Urania was to go her way directly after breakfast). Dorothy
and Tavia would leave the next day. Major Dale, and the boys, had not
returned to the Cedars, their trip being lengthened by a visit paid to
the old home in Dalton.

“And now,” said Nat, as late that night the little party gathered in
the dining room for a final “feed,” together, “when we get to Cadet
Hall and I start in to write business letters (with a sly wink at
Tavia) I hope they will be answered promptly by every one who is
honored by receiving one. I remember last year, momsey, you kept me
waiting two whole days for a little check--and you know a thing like
that puts a fellow out dreadfully.”

“But, my dear,” replied the mother, “you should manage your allowance
better. This year I will positively not advance a single dollar to
either of you.”

“Send checks ma, do,” put in Ned. “We ain’t fussy about the currency.”

“Now, we must not stay up too late,” added Mrs. White. “I wish we had
been able to let the Urania matter wait for a few days--it seems I have
quite an institution to clear out all at once, but since the Deerfield
school opens to-morrow, I think it will be best for her to be there on
time. I hope she will get along.”

“So do I,” spoke up Dorothy, with a promptness that signified anxiety
as to the question. “Urania is a queer girl, and has had her own way
always. It will be very different now, especially as Deerfield School
makes a specialty of taking in--odd girls.”

“She’s odd all right,” chimed in Ned, “and not so bad looking either. I
quite took to her in those new togs.”

“Yes,” answered Mrs. White smiling, “she did look well in that little
blue dress of Dorothy’s. Let us hope she will become the clothes as
they become her.”

With more small talk interrupted finally with a decided “Go to bed,”
from Mrs. White, the dining room was empty at last, and the prospective
scholars soon sleeping the sleep that blesses a well-filled day.

A rainy day dawned on the morrow--rainy and dreary as any day in early
fall could be.

Tavia and Dorothy saw the outlook from their window and added to the
misery such groans and moans as girls preparing for a long journey
might be pardoned for making under the circumstances.

“You needn’t care,” said Tavia to Dorothy. “There’s a good tight
shut-in box to the ‘Fire Bird,’ but I wanted to gather some wild flower
roots to take to Glenwood. Those ferns we brought back with us last
year just kept me alive in my ‘glumps,’ and I’m sure to have them bad
as ever when I get there this time.”

“I suppose you miss the boys,” said Dorothy, innocently. Then, seeing
the effect of her words, she tried in vain to make amends.

“I’m sure I miss them,” she hurried to add, “I am always homesick for a
week, but I have to get to work, and that’s the best cure I know of.”

“And it has exactly the opposite effect on me,” declared Tavia. “If I
didn’t have to get to work, I fancy school life would not be such a
bore.”

“But you manage to keep going. I suppose you and Ned Ebony will be as
thick as ever. And you and Nita Brandt will be as--”

“Thin as ever,” finished Tavia, “which means that we will run like
melted butter at ninety degrees. I never could get along with that
splinter.”

“Well, I hope Cologne will be there when we arrive. She always seems to
be the first bell--starts everything up,” continued Dorothy. “I’m going
to work hard this year. There are prizes, you remember.”

“Mine for the ‘booby,’” sighed Tavia. “I hate prizes. Always make
me think of putting your name on the church envelope. Kind of cheap
advertising.”

“Oh, I don’t feel that way about it,” objected Dorothy. “When one wins
a prize it is something to have a remembrance of the contest. That’s
the way I look at it.”

“Well, I always like to forget the contests,” insisted the obdurate
Tavia, “so I don’t mind not having the medal. But say! Isn’t it time
you went down? Urania was to start early. Don’t wait for me. I’m going
to take my time this morning. Last morning I’ll get time to take until
holidays.”

At this Dorothy ran lightly down the stairs, and with a word to Mrs.
White she hurried over to the coach house to make sure that Urania was
ready before she should stop for breakfast.

“I haven’t called the poor thing yet,” apologized John’s wife, Mary, as
Dorothy entered. “She looked that worried and played out I thought to
let her sleep until the last minute. I’ll help her to dress.”

Dorothy entered the little bedroom with the woman.

“She’s gone!” both exclaimed together.

“Ran away!” added Dorothy, as the unruffled bed told the tale.

“And we never heard her move!” declared the woman, in alarm. “How ever
did she get out?”

“After all our trouble!” moaned Dorothy. “Well, perhaps it is better to
happen now than when she got off there alone. I guess there’s no use
trying to make a lady of a gypsy girl,” she finished sadly. “But I did
hope Urania would amount to something.”

“As you say, miss, it’s better now,” put in the woman, “and like as not
she’s gone back to the camp.”

“Oh, no, I’m positive she did not intend to go back there. She really
meant to leave the gypsies, and I suppose she has carried out her plan.
You see, she had some money, and she’s not afraid to travel. Well, I
must go and tell Aunt Winnie. They will all be so disappointed!”

“I hope they won’t blame me,” said the woman, anxiously. “I didn’t
suppose she had to be watched, Miss Dorothy.”

“You are not in the least to blame, Mary. No matter how we watched her,
she could get away if she wanted to. Well, I hope she takes care of
herself.”

“She spoke right smart to me last night,” went on Mary. “She talked of
how good you had been to her, and she said she would make it right some
day. It’s a pity she has no one to guide her.”

As Dorothy said, the folks were disappointed when they heard of the
runaway, but Mrs. White made the best of the affair by declaring that
it was better for the girl to go away as she had done, than to have
made some trouble at the school--perhaps induced other girls to run off
with her.

That afternoon Ned and Nat left for Cadet Hall, and early the next
morning Dorothy and Tavia started off for Glenwood. Little did the
girls dream of under what peculiar circumstances they were to meet
Urania again.




CHAPTER IX

MIETTE


“Oh, have you seen her!” exclaimed Rose-Mary Markin.

“Sweet Ever-lean-er!” chimed in Edna Black.

“What’s so interesting about her?” asked little Nita Brandt, in her
most sarcastic tone.

“Why, don’t you know?” went on Edna, familiarly called Ned Ebony.

“I suppose because she’s French--”

“Not at all, my dear,” interrupted Ned. “It’s because she’s a real
little beauty. Here come Dorothy and Tavia, leave it to them.”

The girls were at Glenwood School--all over the place, as Tavia
expressed it. But the particular group in question happened to be
situated in the broad hall near the “coming in” door--these girls
always formed the reception committee on opening day.

“Oh,” moaned Dorothy, as she sank into a cushioned seat, “I’m dead and
buried--”

“And no insurance,” interrupted Tavia, following Dorothy’s move and
getting into some cushions for her own comfort.

“Mean trip?” asked Rose-Mary.

“Mean!” echoed Tavia, “we stopped at every telegraph pole and backed up
between each pair. Doro made out all right--she had a book. But poor
me! I just doubled up in a heap and now the heap is all doubled up in
me,” and she went through a series of “squirms,” calculated to get “out
of the heap.”

“We were just speaking of the new girl--Miette de--de--what is it?”
asked Cologne.

“Miette de Pain, likely
